>> Woodruff: GREECE PUTS CASH ON
LOCK DOWN.
ON THE BRINK OF DEFAULT, BANKS
AND MARKETS CLOSE TO STOP
ECONOMIC COLLAPSE.
THOUSANDS TAKE TO THE STREETS IN
ATHENS TO PROTEST FURTHER CUTS.
>> THIS TIME TOMORROW GREECE
WILL BE IN DEFAULT.
AND THEN LIFE WILL BECOME EVEN
MORE UNCERTAIN.
>> Woodruff: GOOD EVENING, I'M
JUDY WOODRUFF.
GWEN IFILL IS AWAY.
ALSO AHEAD THIS MONDAY:
A HISTORIC TERM FOR THE U.S.
SUPREME COURT WRAPS UP.
JUSTICES UPHOLD DEATH BY LETHAL
INJECTION AND BLOCK LIMITS ON
POWER PLANTS.
PLUS, THE TOP FOUR TEAMS FACE
OFF IN THE WOMEN'S WORLD CUP.
THE U.S. MEETS NUMBER ONE
GERMANY IN THE SOCCER SEMI-
FINALS.
>> THIS COULD BE THE FINALS
WORLD CUP, THE SEMIFINALS, THIS
WILL BE GERMANY AND THE U.S.,
ABSOLUTELY THE TWO BEST TEAMS IN
THE TOURNAMENT.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE SOME OF
THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Woodruff: THE FINANCIAL
TURMOIL IN GREECE SENT WALL
STREET TO ITS BIGGEST LOSSES OF
THE YEAR TODAY.
IT WAS PART OF A WORLDWIDE SELL-
OFF AFTER GREEK BAILOUT TALKS
FAILED AND THE GREEK GOVERNMENT
SHUT DOWN BANKS.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
PLUNGED 350 POINTS TO CLOSE
BELOW 17,600.
THE NASDAQ FELL 120 POINTS,
AND THE S&P 500 SLID 44.
WE'LL HAVE A FULL REPORT FROM
GREECE, RIGHT AFTER THE NEWS
SUMMARY.
TWO OF THE LAST HOLDOUT STATES
GAVE WAY TODAY TO THE HIGH
COURT'S DECISION LEGALIZING GAY
MARRIAGE.
LOUISIANA BEGAN ISSUING LICENSES
TO SAME-SEX COUPLES, AND
MISSISSIPPI AUTHORIZED CLERKS OF
COURT TO DO THE SAME.
BUT TEXAS ATTORNEY GENERAL KEN
PAXTON SAYS CLERKS MAY REFUSE TO
ISSUE LICENSN
THAT BROUGHT COMPLAINTS TODAY IN
AUSTIN.
>> WHAT'S CLEAR IS THAT OUR WORK
IS FAR FROM OVER.
THE THEATRICS OF TEXAS ATTORNEY
GENERAL PAXTON, WHO HAS
BLATANTLY ENCOURAGED STATE
OFFICIALS TO DEFY THE HIGHEST
COURT IN THE LAND, IS EVIDENCE
OF THAT VERY FACT.
THE ATTORNEY GENERAL IS
IRRESPONSIBLY EMPOWERING AND
ENCOURAGING OBSTRUCTION AND
DELAY.
THE U.S. SUPREME COURT HAS
CLOSED OUT ITS TERM WITH A SLAP
AT THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
AGENCY.
THE JUSTICES RULED FIVE TO FOUR
TODAY AGAINST
E.P.A.'s LIMITS ON MERCURY
EMISSIONS FROM POWER PLANTS.
IT SAID OFFICIALS SHOULD HAVE
ACCOUNTED FOR THE COST OF
COMPLIANCE, RIGHT FROM THE
START.
A FULL EXAMINATION OF THE
DECISION FOLLOWS LATER IN THE
PROGRAM.
PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS SIGNED TWO
HARD-WON TRADE BILLS THAT COULD
CLEAR THE WAY TO FINISH AN ASIAN
FREE-TRADE DEAL.
THE SIGNING TODAY, IN THE WHITE
HOUSE EAST ROOM, WAS A RARE,
BIPARTISAN OCCASION.
IT FOLLOWED AN ALL-OUT FIGHT
THAT PITTED THE PRESIDENT
AGAINST MANY OF HIS FELLOW
DEMOCRATS.
AS HE SIGNED TODAY, HE QUIPPED:
"THIS IS SO MUCH FUN WE SHOULD
DO IT AGAIN."
NEGOTIATORS IN THE IRAN NUCLEAR
TALKS KEPT AT IT TODAY, AMID
SIGNS THEY'LL CONTINUE PAST
TOMORROW'S DEADLINE.
IRAN'S FOREIGN MINISTER RETURNED
HOME FROM VIENNA, FOR
CONSULTATIONS.
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERRY
STAYED, AND MET WITH OTHER
OFFICIALS, BUT STOPPED SHORT OF
SIGNALING PROGRESS.
HIS SPOKESMAN, IN WASHINGTON,
DEFENDED TAKING EXTRA TIME.
>> WE'RE STILL FOCUSED ON
GETTING THE BEST AGREEMENT
POSSIBLE, THE MOST COMPREHENSIVE
AGREEMENT POSSIBLE.
AND IF WE HAVE TO WORK A LITTLE
BIT LONGER TO DO THAT, THE TEAM
IN VIENNA, THEN THEY'LL DO SO
OBVIOUSLY BUT NOBODY IS TALKING
ABOUT A LONG-TERM EXTENSION.
>> Woodruff: IRAN REACHED A
FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT WITH THE
U.S. AND OTHER WORLD POWERS IN
APRIL.
NOW, SOME WESTERN OFFICIALS
ACCUSE TEHRAN OF BACKTRACKING ON
THAT DEAL.
IN EGYPT, THE TOP PUBLIC
PROSECUTOR, HISHAM BARAKAT, WAS
ASSASSINATED IN A CAR BOMB
ATTACK IN CAIRO.
HE HAD LED THE CASES AGAINST
OUSTED PRESIDENT MOHAMMED MORSI
AND OTHER LEADERS OF THE MUSLIM
BROTHERHOOD.
THERE WAS NO IMMEDIATE CLAIM OF
RESPONSIBILITY, BUT THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP HAD URGED ATTACKS ON
EGYPT'S JUDGES.
THE PEOPLE OF BURUNDI VOTED
TODAY IN A PARLIAMENTARY
ELECTION MARKED BY VIOLENT
PROTESTS AGAINST THE PRESIDENT'S
BID FOR A THIRD TERM.
VOTERS TRICKLED TO POLLING
PLACES IN THE AFRICAN NATION
AMID REPORTS OF GUNSHOTS AND
EXPLOSIONS.
THE VIOLENCE HAS SENT SOME
140,000 PEOPLE FLEEING THE
COUNTRY.
THE OPPOSITION BOYCOTTED TODAY'S
VOTE.
HUNDREDS MORE MIGRANTS WERE
BROUGHT ASHORE AT ITALIAN PORTS
TODAY, AFTER BEING RESCUED AT
SEA.
THE NEW ARRIVALS WERE AMONG
NEARLY 3,000 PEOPLE PICKED UP
SUNDAY.
THEY WERE IN 21 SMALL BOATS THAT
SMUGGLERS LAUNCHED FROM LIBYA.
SO FAR THIS YEAR, MORE THAN
60,000 FROM AFRICA AND THE
MIDDLE EAST HAVE MADE IT TO
ITALY.
MORE THAN 400 PEOPLE REMAIN
HOSPITALIZED IN TAIAF
FIRE BALL ENGULFED PARTYGOERS AT
A WATER PARK, ON SATURDAY.
THE INJURED, MANY IN THEIR EARLY
20's, WERE TREATED AND RUSHED TO
AMBULANCES, SOME OF THEM WITH
CRITICAL BURNS.
ONE WOMAN DIED LATER, AND THE
HEAD OF THE WATER PARK OFFERED
AN EMOTIONAL APOLOGY TODAY.
AN EMOTIONAL APOLOGY TODAY. >> (
translated): WE RENTED
IT
>> (translated): WE
RENTED IT OUT LIKE YOU RENT A
HOUSE.
OUT LIKE YOU RENT A HOUSE.
YOU DON'T EXPECT SOMETHING LIKE
THIS TO HAPPEN.
HOW CAN ONE KNOW THAT SO MANY
PEOPLE WOULD GET HURT?
IT REALLY MAKES ME FEEL SORROW,
SO I AM REALLY SORRY.
>> Woodruff: INVESTIGATORS
BELIEVE THE FIRE STARTED
WHEN A CIGARETTE BUTT OR SPARK
IGNITED FLAMMABLE POWDER THAT
WAS SPRAYED OVER THE CROWD FROM
A STAGE.
BACK IN THIS COUNTRY, A RAIN
SQUALL IN WENATCHEE, WASHINGTON
GAVE BRIEF RELIEF TO CREWS
BATTLING A FIRE THAT'S FORCED
MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE TO FLEE.
AND HUNDREDS OF FIREFIGHTERS ARE
TRYING TO CORRAL THE SLEEPY
HOLL FIROWE THAT IGNITED
YESTERDAY, 120 MILES EAST OF
SEATTLE.
IT'S DESTROYED SOME 24 HOMES,
FANNED BY HIGH HEAT AND STRONG
WINDS.
>> IT WAS WHAT WE CLASSIFY AS A
FIRE STORM COMING THROUGH.
MULTIPLE STRUCTURES WERE
INVOLVED WHEN THE RESOURCES WERE
ALLOCATED OVER THERE AND IT WAS
AN ALL NIGHT LONG FIREFIGHT
TRYING TO CATCH THE SPOT FIRES
AS THEY WERE-- EMBERS WERE GOING
FROM ONE HOUSE TO ANOTHER
CATCHING THE ROOFS ON FIRE AND
THEN SPREADING THAT WAY.
>> Woodruff: LATER, THE FIRE
BURNED A FRUIT WAREHOUSE,
AND AMMONIA USED FOR COLD-
STORAGE BEGAN TO LEAK.
EMERGENCY MANAGERS URGED PEOPLE
IN THE IMMEDIATE AREA TO STAY
INDOORS.
A CONVICTED KILLER WHO MADE A
DARING PRISON BREAK IN NORTHERN
NEW YORK, HAD HIS CONDITION
UPGRADED TO SERIOUS TODAY.
DAVID SWEAT IS NOW HOSPITALIZED
IN ALBANY.
HE WAS SHOT AND RECAPTURED
YESTERDAY, LESS THAN TWO MILES
FROM THE CANADIAN BORDER.
KILLED BY POLICE ON FRIDAY.
AND, THERE'S WORD THE WORLD'S
JEWISH POPULATION HAS RETURNED
TO WHERE IT WAS BEFORE THE
HOLOCAUST.
AN ISRAELI THINK TANK ESTIMATES
THE NUMBER IS NOW 16.5 MILLION,
ABOUT EQUAL TO THE TOTAL IN THE
1930's.
THE NAZIS AND THEIR CONSPIRATORS
MURDERED SOME SIX MILLION JEWS.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR:
GREECE ON THE BRIN BANK:KS AND
MARKETS CLOSE TO PREVENT AN
ECONOMIC COLLAPSE.
A HISTORIC TERM FOR THE SUPREME
COURT WRAPS UP WITNEWH
DECISIONS.
THE WEEK AHEAD IN POLITICS WITH
TAMARA KEITH AND STU ROTHENBERG.
U.S. SOCCER ONE STEP CLOSER TO
THE GOAL OF A WOMAN'S WORLD CUP.
AND, THE POWER OF PAINT FOR
ARTISTS WHO'VE EXPERIENCED
HOMELESSNESS.
>> Woodruff: SHOCK, AND ANXIETY
SPREAD ACROSS GREECE TODAY, AS
BANKS AND THE ATHENS STOCK
MARKET BEGAN A WEEK-LONG
CLOSURE.
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
MALCOLM BRABANT IS ON THE GROUND
WHERE MANY ARE UNCERTAIN ON WHAT
WILL HAPPEN TO THEM, AND THEIR
COUNTRY, AS TOMORROW'S DEFAULT
DEADLINE WILL ALMOST CERTAINLY
PASS WITHOUT A SOLUTION.
>> Reporter: ACROSS ATHENS THIS
MORNING, PEOPLE LINED UP AT
A.T.M.'s, HOPING TO GET AT THEIR
MONEY.
INSTEAD, THEY WERE LIMITED TO
WITHDRAWALS OF JUST 60 EUROS, OR
$67.
$67. >> (translated
): THE BANKS ARE
>> (translated): THE
BANKS ARE CLOSED, EVERYTHING'S
CLOSED.
CLOSED, EVERYTHING'S CLOSED.
THERE'S NOTHING THERE.
I'VE JUST GOT ONE EURO 60 IN MY
POCKET.
I WENT TO THE BANK TO GET SOME
MONEY AND THERE WAS NOTHING BUT
FRESH AIR.
>> Reporter: THE BANK CLOSURE
CAME AFTER WEEKEND TALKS BETWEEN
GREECE AND ITS INTERNATIONAL
CREDITORS COLLAPSED IN ACRIMONY.
GREEK PRIME MINISTER ALEXIS
TSIPRAS REJECTED NEW AUSTERITY
MEASURES AS THE PRICE FOR
ADDITIONAL BAILOUT FUNDS.
INSTEAD, HE CALLED A NATIONAL
REFERENDUM FOR THIS COMING
SUNDAY.
SUNDAY. >> (translated
): GREEK MEN AND
>> (translated): GREEK
MEN AND WOMEN, THE BLACKMAIL
ULTIMATUM
WOMEN, THE BLACKMAIL ULTIMATUM
IS FOR US TO ACCEPT AN AUSTERE
AND DEGRADING AUSTERITY WITHOUT
END, AND WITHOUT THE PROSPECT OF
EVER RECOVERING SOCIALLY AND
ECONOMICALLY, I INVITE YOU TO
DECIDE IN A SOVEREIGN AND PROUD
MANNER, AS THE HISTORY OF THE
GREEKS COMMANDS.
>> Reporter: WITH THAT, THE
EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK CUT OFFNGK
BANKS.
SO, THE TSIPRAS GOVERNMENT
IMPOSED CURRENCY CURBS TO
BANKS.
MANY GREEKS RESPONDED BY RUSHING
TO GAS STATIONS, SOME OF WHICH
PUT UP SIGNS SAYING THEY
WOULDN'T ACCEPT CREDIT CARDS.
THE CASH CRUNCH ALSO HIT
PENSIONERS, WHO'D BEEN DUE TO
RECEIVE PAYMENTS TODAY.
>> (translated): WE ARE
WAITING FOR OUR PENSIONS, THE
LABORS THAT WE'VE BEEN PAYING
FOR OUR WHOLE LIFE.
AND THEY ARE FOOLING US, AND WE
ARE WAITING HERE LIKE BEGGARS TO
WITHDRAW OUR OWN MONEY.
THE TV CHANNELS ARE NOW SAYING
ONE THING, AND IN AN HOUR THEY
SAY SOMETHING ELSE, THEY ARE
DRIVING US CRAZY, EVERYONE.
>> Reporter: THAT COMPLAINT WAS
ECHOED AT PLACES LIKE THIS
COFFEE SHOP, IN THE MIDDLE CLASS
ATHENIAN SUBURB OF PALLINI.
>> I THINK IT'S JUST
UNCERTAINTY.
PEOPLE ARE JUST UNCERTAIN.
WE DON'T KNOW WHAT'S GOING TO
HAPPEN NEXT WEEK.
SO IF WE KNEW, IF SOMEONE WOULD
GIVE US AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT IT
WOULD BE LIKE NEXT WEEK, THEN
PEOPLE WOULD BE MORE RELAXED.
BUT UNCERTAINTY FUELS FEAR.
SO PEOPLE ARE SCARED.
WILL I HAVE A JOB NEXT WEEK?
WILL THE BANKS OPEN NEXT WEEK?
DON'T KNOW.
>> Reporter: AND IT WASN'T ONLY
GREEKS THEMSELVES AFFECTED BY
THE CRISIS.
ONE OF THE ONLY BRIGHT SPOTS IN
THE NATION'S ECONOMY IS ITS
TOURISM INDUSTRY, BUT FOREIGN
VISITORS TODAY EXPRESSED MIXED
FEELINGS.
>> RIGHT NOW A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
EUROPE THEY ARE AFRAID TO COME
HERE, LET'S SAY TO SPEND SOME
VACATION.
MY ADVICE TO THE TOURISTS FROM
EUROPE IS TO COME HERE WITH
THEIR OWN MONEY IN THEIR POCKET
ALREADY SO THEY DON'T HAVE ANY
PROBLEMS.
>> Reporter: IN THE MEANTIME,
THE GREEK GOVERNMENT IS HEADED
FOR DEFAULT TOMORROW ON A MAJOR
DEBT REPAYMENT, AND POSSIBLY,
FOR AN EXIT FROM THE EUROZONE.
TODAY IN BRUSSELS, THE HEAD OF
THE E.U. COMMISSION APPEALED
FOR CLEAR-THINKING AHEAD OF
SUNDAY'S REFERENDUM.
SUNDAY'S REFERENDUM. >> (
translated): I VERY MUCH
>> (translated): I VERY
MUCH LIKE THE GREEKS, AND I'D
SAY TO
LIKE THE GREEKS, AND I'D SAY TO
THEM YOU SHOULD NOT COMMIT
SUICIDE BECAUSE YOU ARE AFRAID
OF DEATH.
YOU SHOULD SAY "YES" WHATEVER
THE QUESTION IS.
BUT YOU SHOULD SAY "YES" BECAUSE
THE GREEK PEOPLE WHO ARE
RESPONSIBLE, HONORABLE CITIZENS
AND PROUD OF THEMSELVES AND
THEIR COUNTRY SHOULD SAY "YES"
TO EUROPE.
GREECE IS EUROPE, EUROPE IS
GREECE.
>> Reporter: BUT BACK IN ATHENS,
AS NIGHT FELL, THOUSANDS OF
PROTESTERS GATHERED OUTSIDE
GREECE'S PARLIAMENT TO DEMAND
THE GOVERNMENT STAND FIRM
AGAINST ANY NEW AUSTERITY
MEASURES.
THESE ARE UNCHARTED WATERS FOR
GREECE.
AND DESPITE THE SURFACE CALM, IT
MAY BE SINKING FASTER THAN
PEOPLE REALIZE.
A LIMITED NUMBER OF BANKS WERE
DUE TO OPEN TOMORROW TO ALLOW
PENSIONERS TO CASH THEIR MONTHLY
CHECKS.
BUT THE STRAIN ON THE BANKS IS
SO SERIOUS, THAT THIS HAS BEEN
PUT BACK TO THURSDAY.
THERE WILL BE CONSIDERABLE ANGER
IF THE MOST VULNERABLE AREN'T
ABLE TO GET THEIR MONEY.
AS IT STANDS AT THE MOMENT,
THERE ARE LESS THAN 24 HOURS
LEFT ON THE BAILOUT DEAL THAT IS
KEEPING GREECE AFLOAT,
AND ATHENS DOESN'T HAVE THE
MONEY TO PAY THE $1.8 BILLION IT
OWES THE INTERNATIONAL MONETARY
FUND.
SO, THIS TIME TOMORROW GREECE
WILL BE IN DEFAULT.
AND THEN LIFE WILL BECOME EVEN
MORE UNCERTAIN.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: MALCOLM BRABANT
REPORTING FROM ATHENS.
LET'S LOOK FURTHER AT THE
POTENTIAL CONSEQUENCES FOR
GREECE AND ITS PEOPLE, AND THE
CONCERNS ABOUT THE EUROZONE AND
THE GLOBAL ECONOMY.
GREG IP IS THE CHIEF ECONOMICS
COMMENTATOR FOR THE "WALL STREET
JOURNAL" AND JOINS ME NOW.
, SO GREG IP, WHAT DO PEOPLE
BELIEVE IS GOING TO HAPPEN
TOMORROW?
>> WELL, THE ACTUAL DEFAULT ON
THE I'M RI.M.F. LOAN IS NOT
SIGNIFICANT, BECAUSE THE I.M.F.
IS NOT ABOUT TO FAIL OR STOP
LENDING TO OTHER COUNTRIES AS A
CONSEQUENCE.
IT MEANS GREECE IS IN ARREARS IN
TERMS OF INTERPRETATIONAL
OBLIGATION AND CAN'T GET NEW
FUNDS TO REOPEN BANKS AND HAVE
THE BUDGET FUNCTION NORMALLY
UNTIL IT COMES TO AN AGREEMENT
WITH THE I.F.M.
THE BIGGER QUESTION HANGING OVER
GREECE AND FUTURE WITH RESPECT
TO TIMENT F.HM.F. AND RELATIONS
ARE WHAT HAPPENS WITH THE
REFERENDUM NEXT SUNDAY.
HOW WILL THE GREEK PEOPLE VOTE
I?IF THEY REJECT THE AGREEMENT,
THE TERMS, THEN IT'S VERY HARD
TO SEE WHAT THE PATH IS BACK TO
SOME SORT OF NEGOTIATED
SETTLEMENT AND HARD TO SEE HOW
GREECE STAYS IN THE EURO.
>> Woodruff: SO GREECE IN A
HOLDING PATTERN UNTIL NEXT
WEEKEND.
WHAT DO PEOPLE EXPECT WILL
HAPPEN AT THAT POINT?
>> NOBODY REALLY NOSE PARTLY
BECAUSE THE REFERENDUM QUESTION
ITSELF IS VERY UNCLEAR.
GREEKS ARE BEING ASKED TO VOTE
YES OR NO TO A TECHNICAL 40 PAGE
DOCUMENT UNTIL RECENTLY WASN'T
AVAILABLE IN GREEK.
THE GREEK GOVERNMENT HAS BEEN
TELLING VOTERS THIS IS NOT A
REFERENDUM ON STAYING THE EURO.
WE'RE STAYING THE EURO NO MATTER
WHAT, BUT THE CREDITORS ON THE
OTHER SIDE ARE SAYING THE
OPPOSITE.
THEY'RE SAYING DE FACTO, IF YOU
VOTE NO, YOU'RE ALSO SAYING NO
TO EUROPE.
SO DEPENDING ON HOW GREEK VOTERS
INTERPRET THE QUESTION WILL
DETERMINE HOW THE REFERENDUM IS
DECIDED.
>> Woodruff: SO ARE YOU SAYING
LITERALLY THIS IS COMPLETELY UP
IN THE AIR AT THIS POINT?
>> IT COMPLETELY IS.
I WOULDN'T SAY GREECE IS IN A
HOLDING PARTON WHICH WOULD BE
POSITIVE.
I THINK T
UNCERTAINTY EXISTS AND THE BANKS
STAY CLOSED THE WORSE IT GOATS.
THE ECONOMY IS IN RECESSION AND
THE ONLY MAJOR ECONOMY IN THE
EUROZONE TO BE SHRINKING LARGE
LIBECAUSE OF THE NEGOTIATIONS
BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT AND THE
CREDITOR NATIONS.
IT WILL ONLY GET WORSE.
EVEN IF THEY VOTED YES IN THE
REFERENDUM, THERE IS SPECULATION
THAT WOULD FORCE THE REFORM
GOVERNMENT TO RESIGN.
HOW COULD THEY CARRY OUT THE
REFORM GIVEN HOW GREEKS OPPOSED
THEM SO YOU WOULD HAVE WEEKS OF
UNCERTAINTY WAITING FOR THE NEW
GOVERNMENT TO FORM I. WE'VE SEEN
THE EFFECTS ON THE U.S. MARKET,
THE DOW DROPPING 350 PS.ABOUT I?
WHAT DO YOU SEE HAPPENING?
WHAT DO PEOPLE THINK WILL HAPPEN
IN EUROPE AND THE EFFECT ON THE
UNITED STATES?
>> WELL, THE NEAR TERM EFFECT IS
PROBABLY LIKELY TO BE MUCH LESS
MUTED IN EUROPE AND THE REST OF
THE WORLD THAN FOUR OR FIVE
YEARS AGO WHEN THE GREEK CRISIS
FIRST ERUPTED.
THE OTHER COUNTRIES WHO ARE
VULNERABLE HAVE PLACES TO GO.
EUROPE HAS A BAILER FUND AND THE
EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK MADE IT
CLEAR THEY WILL LEND MONEY TO
COUNTRIES WHO NEED IT PROVIDED
THE COUNTRIES ARE AGREED TO
REFORM REACHED BY THE EUROPEAN
COMMISSION.
SO IT'S UNLIKELY YOU WILL GET
MONEY FLEEING FROM BANKS AND THE
BOND MARKET SHUTTING DOWN LIKE
THREE OR FOUR YEARS AGO.
WHAT GREECE DEMONSTRATED IS
PEOPLE HAVE A LIMIT TO THEIR
ABILITY TO TOLERATE PAIN.
WHILE THE SITUATION IS NOT AS
BAD IN ITALY, GREECE AND SPAIN,
IT IS STILL QUITE THAT AND
PEOPLE DO HAVE A BREAKING POINT.
IF THE ECONOMY GETS WORSE IN
EUROPE AND THEY HAVE BEEN DOING
RELATIVELY WELL UNTIL RECENTLY,
THAT COULD INCREASE THE
TOLERANCE OF VOTERS FOR
AUSTERITY, BRING TO POWER
MOVEMENTS SIMILAR TO GREECE AND
ONCE AGAIN RAISE QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE FUTURE OF THE EURO I. THERE
ARE MANY MORE QUESTIONS ABOUT
GREECE BUT WE HAVE A FEW SECONDS
LEFT.
I WANT TO ASK YOU ABOUT ANOTHER
FINANCIAL CRISIS POINT AND THAT
IS PUERTO RICO.
>> YEAH.
>> Woodruff: THE GOVERNOR OVER
THE WEEKEND SAYING HIS TERRITORY
IS ABOUT TO MOVE INTO
BANKRUPTCY.
WHAT'S THE STORY THERE?
HOW DID THIS HAPPEN?
>> PUERTO RICO'S PROBLEMS HAVE
BEEN DEVELOPING FOR MANY YEARS
AND ARE SIMILAR TO GREECE'S.
IT'S CHRONICALLY UNCOMPETITIVE
COUNTRY BUT BECAUSE IT'S LOCKED
IN A MONETARY UNION WITH THE
UNITED STATES IT CAN'T REVALUE
ITS DOLLAR TO REGAIN
COMPETITIVENESS.
AS A RESULT THEY HAVE A
SHRINKING POPULATION AND TAX
BASE AND I THINK WHAT THE
GOVERNOR WILL SAY IS THIS DEBT
CANNOT BE REPAID, IT WANTSO
RESTRUCTURE DEBTS WITH
CREDITORS.
HOW?
NOBODY NOTES.
PUERTO RICO CANNOT GO TO
BANKRUPTCY COURT THE WAY A CITY
OR COUNTY CAN IN THE UNITED
STATES, SO UNCERTAINTY AHEAD FOR
PUERTO RICO.
THE PARALLELS TO GREECE ONLY GO
SO FAR.
PUERTO RICO IS NOT ABOUT TO EXIT
THE DOLLAR AND NO OTHER STATE
THAT LOOKS LIKE PUERTO RICO IS
ABOUT TO FOLLOW SUIT.
THIS WILL BE TOUGH FOR PUERTO
RICO.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT HAS A
LARGE PRESENCE THERE.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT PAYS FOR
SOCIAL SECURITY, CUSHIONING THE
HARDSHIP THAT WILL OTHERWISE
FALL ON THE PUERTO RICAN PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: WIRE SERVICES ARE
REPORTING PUERTO RICO'S GOVERNOR
SAYING HE'LL ASK FOR CHAPTER 9
BANKRUPTCY.
WE'LL BE WATCHING AND THANK YOU
FOR BRINGING US UP TO AT A TIME
ON BOTH CRISES.
GREG IP, THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE SUPREME COURT
CLOSED OUT A DRAMATIC SESSION
TODAY WITH THREE MORE HIGH-
PROFILE DECISIONS.
THE LATEST RULINGS TOUCHED ON
HOW THE E.P.A. REGULATES OUR
AIR, HOW TO MAP VOTING LINES AND
HOW STATES CARRY OUT THE DEATH
PENALTY.
JUSTICES ALSO PUT ON HOLD A
TEXAS LAW THAT WAS SET TO CLOSE
A NUMBER OF CLINICS THAT PERFORM
ABORTIONS IN THE STATE THIS
WEEK.
AND JOINING ME TO DISCUSS IT ALL
IS OUR HARDWORKING COURT EXPERT
MARCIA COYLE, WITH THE "NATIONAL
LAW JOURNAL."
THEY'RE GOING OUT WITH A BANK.
>> THEY CERTAINLY ARE, JUDY.
>> Woodruff: LET'S START WITH
THE TEXAS DECISION.
THIS IS A EMERGENCY APPEAL THE
COURT GRANTED TO BLOCK THE STATE
OF TAX FROM IMPOSING STRICTER
RULES ON ABORTION CLINICS.
>> THE FEDERAL COURT RULED
AGAINST THE WHOLE WOMEN'S HEALTH
CLINIC AND OTHER CLINICS IN
TEXAS NO CHALLENGE TO TEXAS LAW
THAT REQUIRES CLINICS TO MEET
STANDARDS OF AMBULATORY SURGICAL
FACILITIES WHICH THE CLINICS
CLAIM THEY ARE NOT AND THAT
THEIR PHYSICIANS HAVE ADMITTING
PRIVILEGES AT HOSPITALS WITHIN
30 MILES OF THE CLINIC.
THIS IS A TEMPORARY DELAY TO
ALLOW THE CLINICS TO FILE WHAT
WE CALL A PETITION FOR SEARCH
CERT, THEIR APPEAL TO HAVE
THROWER COURT DESISMGHTS FOUR
JUSTICE IS WOULD HAVE ALLOWED
THE LOWER COURT'S DECISION TO GO
INTO EFFECT IMMEDIATELY.
GEOFF JUSTICE AND JUSTICES
SCALIA, THOMAS AND ALITO.
SO THE DEADLINE, THAT'S WHEN THE
LOWER COURT DECISION WAS TO TAKE
EFFECT.
IT'S NOW ON HOLD.
THE APPEALS BY THE CLINICS HAS
NOT BEEN FILED IN THE SUPREME
COURT.
>> Woodruff: SO THIS GIVES
TIME TO THOSE WHO DID NOT WANT
THIS TO HAPPEN.
>> EXACTLY.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TURN TO THE
DECISIONS HANDED OUT THIS
MORNING THAT WE KNEW MIGHT BE
COMING TODAY.
STARTING WITH THE ONE TO UPHOLD
THE RIGHT OF OKLAHOMA TO USE
THIS CONTROVERSIAL DRUG AS PART
OF THE LETHAL INJECTION
EXECUTION.
THIS CASE WE ARE SEEING REVEALED
A SHARP DIVIDE AMONG THE
JUSTICES ABOUT THE DEATH PENALTY
ITSELF, AND I'M GOING TO ASK YOU
ABOUT THIS AND I WANT TO FIRST
READ TWO OF THE COMNTSME MADE BY
THE JUSTICES IN THEIR OPINIONS,
AND THE MAJORITY JUSTICE ALITO
SAID "BECAUSE SOME RISK OF PAIN
IS INHERENT IN ANY METHOD OF
EXECUTION, WE HAVE HELD THAT THE
CONSTITUTION DOES NOT REQUIRE
THE AVOIDANCE OF ALL RISK OF
PAIN.
AFTER ALL, WHILE MOST HUMANS
WISH TO DIE A PINLESS DEATH,
MANY DO NOT HAVE THAT GOOD
FORTUNE.
NOW, JUSTICE STEPHEN BREYER
BRINGING A DISSENT SAID "MATHER
THAN TRYING TO PATCH UP THE
DEATH PENALTY'S REGAL WOUNDS ONE
AT A TIME, I WOULD ASK FOR A
FULL BRIEFING ON A MORE BASIC
QUESTION, WHETHER THE DEATH
PENALTY VIOLATES THE
CONSTITUTION.
I BELIEVE IT IS NOW TIME TO
REOPEN THE QUESTION ."
>> WE HAD TWO THINGS GOING ON.
THIS WAS A 5-4 DECISION IN THE
DEATH PENALTY, OFTEN DIVIDES THE
SUPREME COURT.
THE FIRST THING WAS THE
CHALLENGE TO THIS DRUG.
IT'S A SEDATIVE, AND OKLAHOMA
AND A FEW OTHER STATES TURNED TO
IT AS THE FIRST DRUG IN A
THREE-DRUG PROTOCOL THAT IT'S
SUPPOSED TO MAKE THE INMATE WHO
IS TO BE EXECUTED UNCONSCIOUS
WHILE THE NEXT TWO DRUGS, ONE
PARALYZES TINMATE, THE THIRD ONE
BASICALLY KILLS HIM, TAKE
EFFECT.
THE DEATH ROW INMATES HERE FROM
ObamaCare, THERE WERE THREE,
CLAIMED THE DRUG DOES NOT WORK
THAT WAY, THAT THERE WERE
BOTCHED EXECUTIONS THAT WE'VE
READ ABOUT WHERE INMATES HAVE
GASPED, SAID IT'S NOT WORKING
AND NOT DIED FOR 20 MINUTES OR
LONGER.
TODAY JUSTICE ALITO IN HIS LIT
MADE TWO POINTS ABOUT THE DRUG.
FIRST, HE SAID HE DID NOT
BELIEVE THAT THE INMATES HAD
SUFFICIENT SCIENTIFIC EVIDENCE
TO MOVE IT DOESN'T WORK AND WENT
WITH THE STATE'S EXPERT WITNESS
IN THIS RESPECT.
SECONDLY, HE SAID THIS IS WHAT
REALLY DOOMS THEIR CLAIM, UNDER
AN 2008 SUPREME COURT DECISION
INVOLVING WREATHLE INJECTION, HE
SAID THE INMATES WERE WHO ARE
GOING TO CHALLENGE THE METHOD AS
UNCONSTITUTIONAL HAVE TO COME
FORWARD WITH A MYTH THAT IS
CONSTITUTIONAL AND SAID THESE
INMATES DID NOT.
THAT WAS THE FIRST PART.
THEN WE HAD JUSTICE BREYER AND
GINSBURG WRITING.
JUSTICE BREYER WROTE THE DISSENT
THAT SHE JOINED AND SAID HE FELT
THERE HAVE BEEN 340 YEARS
EXPERIMENTATION, STUDIES,
REPORTS AND THE DEATH PENALTY
ISN'T WORKING ANDETH TIME TO
REEXAMINE IT.
HE POINTED OUT, FOR EXAMPLE,
IT'S ARBITRARY AND OFTEN DEPENDS
ON YOUR RACE, GENDER, WHERE YOU
LIVE, WHETHER IT'S GOING TO BE
IMPOSED.
IT'S UNRELIABLE.
HE SAID LOOK AT THE NUMBER OF
EXONERATIONS WE'VE HAD.
HE SAID THERE IS SUBSTANTIAL
EVIDENCE INNOCENT PEOPLE HAVE
BEEN EXECUTED.
THERE IS A DELAY.
IT TAKES ON AVERAGE 18 YEARS
FROM CONVICTION TO SENTENCING.
FOR ALL THOSE REASONS, HE SAID,
THE QUOTE SHOULD HAVE AT LEAST
FULL BRIEFING ON THE QUESTION OF
ITS CONTINUING TONS TUITION
THAT.
>> SO OPENING UP THIS BIGGER
QUESTION.
>> EXACTLY AND THE DEATH PENALTY
WILL BE ON THE DOCTOR NEXT TERM.
>> Woodruff: THERE WERE TWO
MAJOR OPINIONS.
I WANT TO FOCUS ON THIS RULING
ON THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION'S
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS, THE
COURT SAYING THE E.P.A. MADE A
MISTAKE IN 2011 WHEN IT SAID
POWER PLANTS MUST REGULATE AND
LIMIT THE AMOUNT OF MERCURY AND
OTHER TOXIN THEY EMIT.
>> THE PROBLEM -- AND THIS WAS
ALSO A 5-4 DECISION WRITTEN BY
JUSTICE SCALIA -- SOME POWER
PLANT CHALLENGED EPIAP'S
REGULATION OF MERCURY I MISSIONS
SAYING E.P.A. FAILED TO CONSIDER
THE COSTS IN DETERMINING WHETHER
IT WAS -- AND THIS IS STANDARD
LANGUAGE, APPROPRIATE AND
NECESSARY TO REGULATE.
JUSTICE SCALIA SAID TODAY THAT
WAS RIGHT, THE E.P.A. WAS
UNREASONABLE IN NOT CONSIDERING
THE COST AT THE VERY FRONT END.
E.P.A. DID CONSIDER COSTS AND
SAID IT WOULD CONSIDER COSTS
WHEN IT GOT TO ACTUALLY
FORMULATING A STANDARD THAT THE
POWER PLANTS HAD TO MEET.
>> Woodruff: BUT THEY DIDN'T
KNOCK DOWN THE AUTHORITY OF THE
E.P.A.
>> NO.
>> Woodruff: DIDN'T SAY TO
POWER PLANTS THEY HAVE TO DO
THIS.
>> AND LEFT IT TO TEP AP TO GO
BACK AND DECIDE HOW IT WAS GOING
TO HANDLE THE COST
CONSIDERATIONS.
>> Woodruff: MARCIA COYLE,
WATCHING THE COURT FOR US.
>> MY PLEASURE, JUDY.
EXPERTS FOR TIPS ON BEING MORE
>> Woodruff: THE COURT'S E.P.A.
DECISION IS SENDING RIPPLES OF
REACTION THROUGH BOTH
ENVIRONMENTAL AND ENERGY GROUPS.
OUR JEFFREY BROWN HAS MORE ON
WHAT THE RULING WILL MEAN.
>> Brown: WE START WITH THE
WHITE HOUSE.
AFTER HIGH COURT VICTORIES ON
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT AND
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE, TODAY
PRESIDENT OBAMA SUFFERED A
SUPREME COURT SETBACK ON HIS
ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY.
WHITE HOUSE SPOKESMAN JOSH
EARNEST SPOKE TO REPORTERS
EARLIER.
>> WE'RE STILL REVIEWING
DECISION ANNOUNCED EARLIER,
OBVIOUSLY WE ARE DISAPPOINTED W
OUTCOME, AND FOR SPECIFIC
QUESTIONS ABOUT OUTCOME I'D
REFER TO E.P.A.
I WILL SAY BASED ON WHAT WE'VE
READ SO FAR, NO REASON THIS
COURT RULING SHOULD HAVE IMPACT
ON ABILITY OF ADMINISTRATION TO
DEVELOP THE CLEAN POWER PLANTS.
>> Brown: AND WE PICK UP ON THE
QUESTION OF THE RULING'S IMPACT
WITH LYNNE GOLDMAN, DEAN OF THE
GEORGE WASHINGTON SCHOOL OF
PUBLIC HEALTH.
AND JEFF HOLMSTEAD, AN ATTORNEY
WITH THE FIRM BRACEWELL AND
GUILIANI, WHO DEFENDS COMPANIES
AND BUSINESS GROUPS IN
ENVIRONMENTAL CASES.
BOTH OUR GUESTS PREVIOUSLY
SERVED AS ASSISTANT
ADMINISTRATORS AT THE E.P.A.
JEFFHOLMSTEAD, YOU'RE ON THE
WINNING SIDE IN THIS CASE, HOW
SERIOUS A CHALLENGE DO YOU SEE
THIS TO E.P.A. REGULATION IN
THIS AREA.
>> THERE WA?E.P.A. SUGGESTED A F
$9.6 BILLION A YEAR AND HAS BEEN
THE CENTERPIECE OF WHAT THEY'VE
CONE, SO I THINK IT'S A
SIGNATURE LOSS FOR THE AGENCY.
>> Brown: HAS IN ITS ABILITY
TO DO WHAT?
>> WELL, THE ISSUE IS QUITE
SIMPLE, THE QUESTION IS DOES
E.P.A. NEED TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT
THE COST OF ITS REGULATIONS
BEFORE IT MAKES THESE DECISIONS,
AND THE COURT NOT SURPRISINGLY
SAID, YES, THAT'S AN IMPORTANT
ASPECT OF ANY DECISION LIKE
THIS, YOU HAVE TO CONSIDER THE
COST.
SO THAT WILL -- THEY ESTABLISHED
A PRINCIPLE TO AFFECT IN MANY
OTHER REGULATIONS.
>> Brown: BEFORE THE LARGER
IMPACT, THIS PARTICULAR CASE,
YOU CONTINUE SEE IT AS SO
SWEEPING.
>> I DON'T, ACTUALLY.
I WAS DISAPPOINTED IN THE
RULING.
I DON'T THINK IT'S A MAJOR
SETBACK.
I THINK IT WILL FORCE THE E.P.A.
TO GO BACK AND INCORPORATE THE
CONSIDERATIONS OF COSTS THAT
THEY USED IN THE FINAL STAGE
WHERE THEY ACTUALLY BIT OFF THE
STANDARD.
THEY DIDN'T INCORPORATE THE
COSTS INTO THE INITIAL STAGE.
>> Brown: EXPLAIN THE QUESTION
OF COST AND BENEFITS, THEY'RE
OUT THERE AND THE E.P.A. SAYS IT
HAS DONE SOME OF THAT, WHAT IS
THE COURT SAYING THEY DID NOT
DO?
>> IT'S ALSO A UNIQUE SITUATION
WITH THIS RULE BECAUSE THERE
WERE SPECIFIC PROVISIONS IN THE
CLEAN AIR ACT WITH REGARD TO THE
REGULATION OF MERCURY THAT
REQUIRED THE COURT TO MAKE A
FINDING WHETHER MERCURY AND
RELATED TOXINS SHOULD BE
REGULATED AND FROM THE
STANDPOINT OF PUBLIC HEALTH THEY
SAID, YES, AND IF SO, HOW.
AND THEY DID DO A VERY CAREFUL
EXAMINATION OF THE COSTS IN THAT
SECOND STAGE, BUT NOT IN THE
FIRST STAGE, AND I THINK WHAT
THE JUSTICES SAID IS THEY SHOULD
HAVE DONE IT IN THE FIRST STAGE
AND, SO, WHY I DON'T THINK IT'S
A SETBACK IS THEY'VE DONEHE T
WORK TO ANALYZE THE COSTS AND
THE BENEFITS TO PUBLIC HEALTH
AND THEY CAN NOW GO BACK AND
INCORPORATE THAT INTO THE
ORIGINAL FINDINGS.
SO I DON'T SEE IT AS BEING
SWEEPING, PARTICULARLY, BECAUSE
OF THE SPECIFICS AROUND THE
MERCURY PROVISIONS.
BUT ALSO BECAUSE I THINK --
WE'RE AT A STAGE WHERE 70% OF
THE INDUSTRY IS ALREADY
COMPLYING WITH THE RULE.
>> Brown: TO BE CLEAR, YOU'RE
NOT DISPUTING THE NOTION THAT
THE E.P.A.'S MANDATE TO REGULATE
IN THIS AREA HAS BEEN TAMPERED
WITH BY THIS RULING, RIGHT?
>> WELL, IT REALLY HAS BEEN.
THE REASON WHY E.P.A. DIDN'T
CONSIDER COST, THEY DIDN'T TAKE
THAT DECISION LIGHTLY.
THE PROBLEM THEY HAD IS IF THEY
ACKNOWLEDGE THE COST AT THE
FRONT END, THEY WOULD HAVE A
HARD TIME JUSTIFYING THIS
REGULATION.
SO IT HAS GONE BACK TO E.P.A.
WE'LL SEE THE WAY THEY DEAL WITH
IT, BUT IT ESTABLISHES THE
PRINCIPLE THAT UNLESS CONGRESS
TOLD THE AGENCY THAT IT CAN'T
CONSIDER COST IT IS UNREASONABLE
AND UNLAWFUL FOR THE AGENCY TO
MAKE DECISIONS WITHOUT TAKING
COST INTO ACCOUNT.
>> BUT THIS IS ACTUALLY NOT THE
CASE BECAUSE E.P.A.'S ANALYSIS
SAID THIS RULE SAVES 11,000
LIVES A YEAR.
PREVENTS 130,000 ASTHMA ATTACKS
A YEAR AND, IN FACT, PROVIDES A
RANGE BETWEEN $37 BILLION AND
$90 BILLION EVERY YEAR IN
SAVINGS, SO IT IS SIMPLY NOT
TRUE THAT THE REGULATION ISN'T
WORTH THE BENEFITS, IT'S JUST
THAT CALCULATION WAS DONE AT THE
BACK-END, NOT THE OUTSET.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT THE
LARGER POINT THERE IS A
PRINCIPLE ESTABLISHED AND WILL
HAVE WIDER IMPACT ON
ENVIRONMENTAL LAW?
>> I DON'T SEE THAT.
I THINK UNDER, YOU KNOW,
SUCCESSES, ADMINISTRATIONS, THAT
THIS PERFORMANCE OF COST AND
BENEFIT ANALYSIS, E.P.A. HAS
ALWAYS HAD TO DO THAT, AND IT'S
A PROCEDURAL ISSUE OF WHERE
THAT'S INCORPORATED AND NOT
WHETHER OR NOT IT WOULD RESULT
IN A RULING --
>> Brown: AS AN EXAMPLE?
I DISAGREE WITH THAT.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THE COURT
SAID CLEARLY -- AND IT'S TRUE
IT'S IN THE CONTEXT OF A
SPECIFIC ISSUE BURKS WHAT THEY
SAID IS UNLESS CONGRESS TOLD AN
AGENCY THEY CAN'T CONSIDER COST
IN MAKING REGULATORY CONDITIONS,
THEY HAVE TO DO SO.
>> Brown: CAN YOU GIVE AN
EXAMPLE?
THIS SUMMER I THINK WE'RE
EXPECTING MORE REGULATIONS
AROUND CLIMATE CHANGE AND
GREENHOUSE GASES FROM POWER
PANTHERPLANTS.
WOULD THIS BE IN PLAY IN TERMS
OF WHAT THE COURT CAN AND CANNOT
DO?
>> I THINK THIS CASE WILL HAVE
SIGNIFICANT IMPLICATIONS BUT I
THINK THE LEGAL HOLDING IS NOT
RELEVANT BECAUSE, IN THAT CASE,
E.P.A. HAS SAID IT CONSIDERED
THE COST.
BUT HERE'S WHY I THINK IT WILL
BE IMPORTANT -- NUMBER ONE, IT
SHOWS NOW FOR THE SECOND TIME IN
A ROW THAT THE SUPREME COURT IS
NOT JUST GOING TO RUBBER STAMP
WHAT E.P.A. WANTS TO DO, AND
THERE'S BIG QUESTIONS ABOUT THE
POWER PLANT RULE.
AS LYNNE SAID, MOST OF THE
PLANTS HAVE ALREADY TO COMPLY
WITH THE RULE THAT THE COURT NOW
SAID WAS LEGALLY INVALID AT
LEAST IN TERMS OF HOW E.P.A. DID
IT.
THAT MEANS COMPANIES HAVE SPENT
TENS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND
SOMETHING LIKE 100 POWER PLANTS
SHUT DOWN BECAUSE TO HAVE THE
RULE THAT NOW THE COURT HAS SAID
WILL BE ILLEGAL AND THAT WILL BE
SOMETHING THEY WIL LOLOK AT.
>> Brown: DO YOU THINK THE
E.P.A. WILL SEE THIS AS A BUMP
IN THE ROAD AND CONTINUE ON?
>> BECAUSE THE COURT DID NOT
OVERTURN THE RULE.
THEY SENT IT BACK TO LOWER
COURT.
ALL E.P.A. MAS TO DO IS REDO THE
ANALYSIS.
IF THEY CONSIDER AT ONE STAGE,
THEY DON'T HAVE TO DO ITT TWO.
>> Brown: THANK YOU BOTH VERY
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: THE PRESIDENTIAL
HOPEFUL LIST IS READY TO EXPAND
AGAIN, AND THE REPUBLICAN FIELD
IS DIVIDED IN ITS REACTION TO
THE SUPREME COURT SAME-SEX
MARRIAGE CASE.
PLENTY TO TALK ABOUT FOR
POLITICS MONDAY.
JOINING US THIS WEEK IS STU
ROTHENBERG OF THE ROTHENBERG AND
GONZALES POLITICAL REPORT AND
TAMARA KEITH OF NPR.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR BEING HERE.
LET'S TALK FIRST ABOUT THE
SUPREME COURT.
THE COURT, IN NOT UNDERMINING
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, IT
UPHELD IT, AND WE WON'T GET INTO
SPECIFICS BUT ALL THE
REPUBLICANS DISAGREE WITH WHAT
THEY DID.
WILL THIS BE AN ISSUE?
>> YES.
THIS SETS UP A GENERAL ELECTION
WHERE THERE'S A CHOICE BETWEEN
PRESERVING THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT OR REPEAL AND REPLACE WHICH
IS THE MESSAGE REPUBLICANS ARE
SAYING NOW.
WHAT THE SUPREME CEURT DID THEM
A FAVOR ON IS THEY WON'T HAVE TO
GET REAL SPECIFIC ABOUT HOW
THEY'D REPLACE IT BECAUSE THERE
ISN'T SORT OF AN IMMINENT CRISIS
OF SUBSIDIES GOING AWAY.
>> I THINK WE HAVE BEEN TALKING
ABOUT THE A.C.A. FOR FIVE YEARS.
IT'S PART OF THE REPUBLICAN DNA.
THEY WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT,
VOTERS WANT TO HEAR ABOUT IT.
I THINK THERE WILL BE PRESSURE
TO GO INTO DETAIL THAT IF YOU
GET RID OF THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT, WHAT ARE THE ALTERNATIVES?
BUT I THINK THE NEXT FEW MONTHS
BETWEEN NOW AND THE NOMINATION,
I THINK THEY WILL TALK ABOUT IT.
I DON'T THINK THEY WILL QUITE
HAVE THE PASSION IN TALKING ABIT
THEY ONCE DID BECAUSE YOU CAN
ONLY HAVE PASSION FOR SO LONG.
>> Woodruff: SOME REPUBLICANS
ARE EVEN RELIEVED THE COURT WENT
THE WAY THEY DID BECAUSE IT PUTS
THEM IN A STRONGER POSITION
DURING THE GENERAL ELECTION.
LET'S TURN TO THE COURT'S OTHER
BIG DECISION LAST FRIDAY AND
THAT, OF COURSE, WAS UPHOLDING
SAME-SEX MARRIAGE.
T' AND
WE'RE GOING TO SHOW THE AUDIENCE
HOW SOME OF THE REPUBLICANS
DIVIDE ON THIS.
THERE WERE A GROUP -- THEY ALL
DISAGREE WITH THE DECISION, BUT
SOME ARE SAYING WE ARE GOING TOK
SANTORUM, AND THEN THE OTHER
GROUP SAYS WE OPPOSE WHAT THE
COURT DID BUT WE ACCEPT IT AND
THEY DON'T SEEM TO BE MAKING AS
BIG AN ISSUE, THIS IS JEB BUSH,
BEN CARSON, INTERESTINGLY, CHRIS
CHRISTIE, LINDSEY GRAHAM AND
MARCMARCO RUBIO.
HOW DO YOU SEE THIS PLAYING OUT?
>> THIS IS A REFLECTION ON THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY NOT AS MUCH AS
IN IDEOLOGY BUT TONE, TENOR,
STYLE, HOW YOU DEAL WITH THESE
THINGS.
THE REPUBLICAN HAVE A
FUNDAMENTAL PROBLEM WITH ABOUT
HALF TO HAVE THE ELECTORATE.
THAT IS THEY DO FINE AMONG
NON-HIS HANK WHITES AND POORLY
AMONG EVERYBODY ELSE.
GAY VOTERS INCLUDED.
THEY HAVE A PROBLEM WITH LOOKING
INTOLERANT, COLD-BLOODED,
UNWELCOMING.
THAT'S THE BEST WORD,
SO WE HAVE A DIVISION IN THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY WHERE HALF THE
PARTY WANTS TO BE MORE WE W
WELCOMING.
WE DISAGREE BUT WANT TO REACH
OUT.
THE OTHER HALF IS DOUBLING DOWN,
ENERGIZING THE REPUBLICAN BASE
AND GETTING THE PEOPLE ANGRY.
THEY'RE ALREADY ANGRY.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES THIS
MEAN FOR THE CAMPAIGN?
>> YOU HAVE A DIVISION BETWEEN
THOSE WHO ARE BETTING THEIR
PRIMARY WIN ON WINNING
EVANGELICALS AND NEED TO BE
REALLY STRONG ON THAT, AND THOSE
WHO WOULD PREFER NOT TO TALK
ABOUT GAY MARRIAGE ANY MORE THAN
THEY ABSOLUTELY HAVE TO BECAUSE
THEY HAVE THEIR EYES ON THE
GENERAL ELECTION, AND IN THE
GENERAL ELECTION, 60%
APPROXIMATELY OF THE U.S.
POPULATION SUPPORTS GAY MARRIAGE
AND APPROXIMATELY THAT% OF
REPUBLICANS SUPPORT THAT SO THE
FUTURE OF THE PARTY IS ALREADY
SUPPORTING GAY MARRIAGE ON SOME
LEVEL.
SO THOSE ARE THE ONES WHO ARE
NOT AS CONCERNED ABOUT PURITY
AND ARE MORE CONCERNED ABOUT THE
GENERAL ELECTION.
>> Woodruff: WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE WHAT HAPPENS
IN THE DEBATES.
LET'S TALK ABILITY BOBBY JINDAL,
THE GOVERNOR OF LOUISIANA, STU,
WHO GOT IN AT THE END OF LAST
WEEK.
HOW DOES HE FIT IN AND WHAT DOES
THIS MEAN?
>> PERFECT SEGUE.
BOBBY JINDAL IS NOW NOWHERE ON
THE REPUBLICAN RADAR IN TERMS OF
POLLING.
HE IS A PERSON OF CONSIDERABLE
ASSETS.
HE IS A CANDIDATE OF COLOR, 44 ,
RELATIVELY YOUNG, BROWN
EDUCATED, TURNED DOWN HARVARD TO
BECO AME ROA ROAD SCHOLAR.
RAN A HOSPITAL IN HIS 20's ON
INCREDIBLE CREDENTIALS.
HOW DOES HE GET RELEVANT?
I THINK BY MOVING RIGHT, TALKING
ABOUT CULTURAL AND RELIGIOUS
ISSUES.
BOBBY JINDAL KNOWS IF HE DIDN'T
DIDN'T -- IF HE DOESN'T DO WELL
IN IOWA, HE'S OUT OF THE RACE.
HOW DO YOU BECOME THE DARLING OF
SOCIAL CONSERVATIVES, DO WHAT
HE'S DOING NOW.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
HIM FITTING IN?
>> LAST WEEK IN IOWA CALLING FOR
THE ELIMINATION OF THE SUPREME
COURT BECAUSE OF THE WAY IT
RULED.
COMING OUT WITH BIG, BOLD
STATEMENTS, POSITIONING HIMSELF
AS FAR RIGHT AS YOU CAN GET
SAYING HE WILL BE A PRINCIPAL
CONSERVATIVE ON ANY NUMBER OF
THINGS INCLUDING RELIGIOUS
FREEDOM, AFFORDABLE CARE ACT,
EVERYTHING.
HE DOES SAY HE HAS A PLAN FOR
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, FOR
REPLACING IT.
OFF.
>> Woodruff: LET'S TALK ABOUT
ANOTHER GOVERNOR GETTING IN THE
RACE TOMORROW, I THINK IT WILL
MAKE 15 OR 16.
WE'RE LOSING COUNT.
BUT CHRIS CHRISTIE.
HE'S JUMPING IN.
>> YES, AND HIS CAMPAIGN MOTTO
WILL BE "TELLING IT LIKE IT IS"
AND HE WILL IMMEDIATELY AFTER
HIS ANNOUNCEMENT GO TO
NEW HAMPSHIRE AND DO A TON OF
TOWN HAUTOWN HALL EVENTS LIKE AT
TALK EXPRESS THAT JOHN McCAIN
KID.
HE DOESN'T HAVE A TON OF MONEY.
JEB BUSH LOCKED UP A LOT OF BIG
DONORS CHRIS CHRISTIE WOULD HAVE
WANTED, BUT IT DOESN'T TAKE A
LOT OF MONEY TO GO MEET AND WIN
OVER EVERY NEW HAMPSHIRE
REPUBLICAN YOU CAN FIND.
>> I THINK HE'S IN THE SAME
LIGHT AS JEB BUSH, AND JEB BUSH
GOT OUT EARLY AND COA COALESCEDE
SUPPORT OF THE ESTABLISHMENT.
IT'S NOT ABOUT ISSUES, IT'S
ABOUT PERSONALITY AND STYLE AND
HIS STYLE IS APPEALING TO A LOT
OF THE REPUBLICANS.
HE'LL STICK IT TO THE TEACHERS
AND TELL THEM TO SIT DOWN AND
SHUT UP IF HE DOESN'T LIKE WHERE
THEY ARE, BUT YOU COULD COME
AROSS CROSS AS ANGRY AND I THINK
THERE IS FOR GOVERNOR CHRIS
CHRISTIE.
>> Woodruff: DONALD TRUMP
SEPARATING FROM NBC OVER THE
MISS AMERICA SHOW AND HIS
PROGRAMMING.
WILL THIS HAVE AN IMPACT?
>> I THINK NBC WAS SEPARATING
FROM HIM BECAUSE OF HIS COMMENTS
ABOUT MEXICAN IMMIGRANTS.
THE THING TO IT SEEMS TO ME THAT
STANDS OUT IS HILLARY CLINTON IS
ALREADY QUOTING A REPUBLICAN AND
NOT SAYING IT'S DONALD TRUMP.
>> DONALD TRUMP WILL BE DONALD
TRUMP.
>> Woodruff: THANK YOU BOTH.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
SURE.
>> Woodruff: THE WOMEN'S WORLD
CUP IS NEARING ITS FINISH AND
THE U.S. TEAM IS VERY MUCH IN
THE HUNT FOR THE CHAMPIONSHIP.
THREE FORMER CUP CHAMPIONS--
GERMANY, JAPAN AND THE UNITED
STATES-- ARE IN THE SEMIFINALS,
WHILE ENGLAND IS MAKING ITS
FIRST APPEARANCE.
TOMORROW NIGHT, THE U.S. WILL
FACE GERMANY.
IT'S THE FOURTH TIME IN THE
HISTORY OF THE WOMEN'S CUP THAT
THESE TWO COUNTRIES HAVE PLAYED
EACH OTHER.
IN EACH OF THE PRIOR MATCHES,
THE WINNER HAS GONE ON TO WIN
THE TITLE.
JEFFREY BROWN PICKS UP THE STORY
FROM THERE.
>> Brown: GERMANY IS THE NUMBER
ONE TEAM IN THE WORLD WITH AN
OFFENSE THAT HAS SPEED AND SIZE.
BUT THE U.S. HAS THE TOP DEFENSE
AT THE MOMENT.
THE AMERICAN WOMEN HAVEN'T
ALLOWED A GOAL IN 423 MINUTES,
THE THIRD-LONGEST STREAK IN
WOMEN'S WORLD CUP HISTORY.
THEIR MOST RECENT VICTORY CAME
FRIDAY NIGHT, OVER CHINA.
CHRISTINE BRENNAN, SPORTS
COLUMNIST FOR "USA TODAY" AND
COMMENTATOR FOR ABC NEWS, JOINS
ME NOW.
SO, CHRISTINE, AN AMERICAN TEAM
THAT KEEPS WINNING, KEEPS FACING
QUESTIONS ABOUT HOW GOOD IT IS,
AND NOW THEY HAVE A REAL TOUCH.
>> THIS IS IT.
IF YOU WANTED TO SAY THIS COULD
BE THE FINAL AT THE WORLD CUP,
THE SEMIFINALS, THIS WOULD BE
IT.
GERMANY AND THE U.S. THE TWO
BEST TEAMS.
THE U.S. HAS NOT LOOKED IT
BECAUSE IT HAS BEEN SO DEFENSIVE
MINDED.
>> Brown: THE STYLE OF PLAY.
IT'S BEEN A BORING STYLE.
A LOT OF FANS ARE SAYING WHAT'S
WRONG WITH THE TEAM.
SO FAR NOTHING, IN THE SENSE
THEY ADVANCE AND MOVE THROUGH.
WE WILL SEE.
THIS WILL BE THE TEST.
IS THE U.S. FINE, A STRONG
DEFENSIVE BACKBONE AND
OCCASIONAL GOAL OR TWO OR WILL
GERMANY OVERWHELM THE UNITED
STATES?
I THINK THAT'S THE FEAR AT THIS
POINT AFTER WATCHING THAT
FRANCE-GERMANY GAME WHICH LOOKED
LIKE A TRACK MEET COMPARED TO
THE WAY THE U.S. HAS LOOKED OUT
SO FAR.
>> Brown: THE STANDOUT
PLAYERS, A KEY PLAYER IS THE
GOAL TENDER, BE UH WITH A LOT OF
CONTROVERSY ATTACHED.
>> ABSOLUTELY, AWAITING HEARINGS
ON DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CHARGES.
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON SINCE
LAST SUMMER.
I HAVE WRITTEN AND SAID THEY
SHOULD HAVE SUSPENDED HER LAST
SUMMER OR IN THE QUALIFYING LAST
FALL.
THE FACT SHE'S PLAYING WITH A
DOMESTIC VIOLENCE CHARGE STILL
THERE, THE ALLEGATION AFTER RAY
RICE IS AN EMBARRASSMENT TO U.S.
CORK, BUT SHE PLAYS ON, IS
THERE, HAS BEEN THE BEST GOAL
KEEPER IN THE WORLD.
>> Brown: ABBY WBACHOM, ONE OF
THE GREAT STARS NEARING THE END
OF HER CAREER.
>> ABSOLUTELY, LAST WORLD CUP,
35 YEARS OLD, FABULOUS WITH
KIDS.
SHE HAS AN UNEVEN WORLD CUP AND
WAS THNTIS MORE THAN ANYTHING TO
HAVE THE WORLD CUP ADDED TO HER
RESUME.
I WOULDN'T BE SPRAIDZ IF SHE'S
IN THE GAME NEAR THE END WITH A
CHANCE NEAR THE HEADER TO MAYBE
MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
>> Brown: IS THERE ANY PLAYER
WHO HAS SURPRISED YOU OR BEEN A
REAL STANDOUT FOR THE AMERICANS?
>> THE DEFENSE EARLIER, JULIE
JOHNSTON.
UNKNOWN.
SHE WORKED HER WAYN O TO THE
TEAM.
SHE HAS BEEN STELLAR.
SHE WILL BE TESTED AGAINST
GERMANY, FOR SURE.
>> Brown: WHAT ABOUT BRITAIN
WINNING?
A BIT OF A SURPRISE.
FIRST TIME IN THE SEEMIA --
SEMIFINALS, AND HOME TEAM CANADA
LOSING.
>> AND THAT HURTS ATTENDANCE.
YOU WANT TO HAVE THE HOME TEAM
THERE FOR THE GREAT DRAW AND THE
WEEKEND.
THEY DON'T BE THAT WAY ANYMORE.
FOR YEARS THE SEXISM OF ENGLAND,
THEY JUST CARED ABOUT THE MEN'S
TEAM.
>> Brown: THEY DIDN'T PAY
ATTENTION.
>> THEY DIDN'T.
I WENT TO THE BRITISH OPEN IN
1999 AND THEY SAID WHAT WOMEN'S
TEAM?
I SAID WE JUST WON THE ABOUT?
THEY SINCE PUT MONEY IN AND
ENGLAND IS NOW A SOCCER CRAVED
NATION, FINALLY SHOWING IT CARES
ABOUT ITS WOMEN.
>> Brown: LARGER SCALE,
LOOKING AT THE TOURNAMENT, WHAT
DOES IT TELL US ABOUT THE STATE
OF THE WOMEN'S SOCCER GAME NOT
ONLY COMPARED TO THE MEN'S SIDE,
BUT JUST WHERE YOU MIGHT HAVE
THAT IT WOULD BE, SAY, 20 YEARS
AGO.
>> CERTAINLY IN 1999, THE
THOUGHT 16 YEARS LATER, WHAT
WILL THIS LOOK LIKE AFTER BRAN
DIP CHASTAIN, THERE ARE MORE
COUNTRIES PLAYING AND MORE
PEOPLE CARING ABOUT THE WOMEN'S
TEAM BUT YOU'RE SAYING THE SAME
THINGS BUBBLING.
THE UNITED STATES WITH THE TITLE
9, GERMANY, THE SCANDINAVIAN
NATION, JAPAN, COMMUNIST NATIONS
LIKE CHINA YOU WANT TO SEE
BREAKTHROUGH PERFORMANCES.
ENGLAND IS BREAKING THROUGH.
ENGLAND IS A SOOKER CRAZY
NATION.
WITH TITLE 9, THE U.S., IT'S
ALMOST TO THE POINT WHERE WE'RE
JUST TALKING ABOUT THE SOCCER
AND NOT TALKING ABOUT THE DEEPER
MEANING OF THE PEOPLE AND THAT
IS AN ACHIEVEMENT.
>> Brown: CHRISTINE BRENNAN,
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU, JEFF.
>> Woodruff: NOW, A STORY OF
HOPE.
THE REDLINE ART GALLERY IN
DENVER HELPS ARTISTS WHO HAVE
EXPERIENCED HOMELESSNESS AND
OTHER HARDSHIPS.
HERE IN THEIR OWN WORDS, THE
ARTISTS TALK ABOUT HOW THE REACH
STUDIO PROGRAM HAS CHANGED THEIR
LIVES.
>> MY NAME'S GONZO.
I'VE BEEN DOING ART FOR ABOUT 10
YEARS.
I ADD A LITTLE HERE AND THERE.
RIGHT NOW I'M INVOLVED IN
MASSIVE COLLAGE WORKS.
I STARTED DOING ART WHEN I WAS
LOCKED UP IN PRISON.
TO ME IT WAS A THERAPEUTICAL
ESCAPE.
AND I JUST REALLY GOT HOOKED.
>> I'M ROBIN GALLITE.
I'M THE EDUCATION DIRECT AT
REDLINE.
REACH STUDIO STARTED BECAUSE
THERE WERE TWO METRO UNIVERSITY
STUDENTS WHO WANTED TO CREATE A
PROGRAM FOR ARTISTS WHO WERE
EXPERIENCING HOMELESSNESS.
WE OFFER A SPACE TO CREATE FOR
PEOPLE WHO WOULD NOT HAVE SPACE
TO CREATE TRADITIONALLY.
WE OFFER MENTORSHIP.
>> MY NAME IS JASON CLARK.
I'M A MIXED MEDIA ARTIST AND
DESIGNER.
I'VE CURRENTLY BEEN WITH REACH
FOR THREE YEARS NOW.
WHAT IT'S ALLOWED ME TO DO IS
BASICALLY PULL MYSELF OFF THE
STREETS, OF GETTING A SAFE HAVEN
TO EXPRESS MYSELF EVEN IN THE
FRUSTRATION OF SEEING THE DRUG
USE AND PROSTITUTION AND
VIOLENCE.
I WAS ABLE TO COME IN DURING THE
WEEK AND ACTUALLY TREAT IT LIKE
A FULL-TIME JOB AND ESCAPE THE
TRENCHES OF STREET VIOLENCE.
>> I'M CAROLINE POOLER.
IN MY 20s I LOOKED AT A
PRESTIGIOUS LOCAL ART SCHOOL
HERE IN COLORADO AND DETERMINED
IT WAS SOMETHING THAT I COULDN'T
AFFORD.
IT WAS A DREAM I'D KIND OF SET
ASIDE ABOUT 30 YEARS AGO.
AND THEN THROUGH RLINEED A
COUPLE YEARS BACK, THAT SCHOOL
GOT INTERESTED IN OUR MESSAGE
ABOUT HOMELESSNESS AND STREET
LIFE AND THEY OFFERED A GENEROUS
GIFT OF A SCHOLARSHIP TO SOME OF
US REACH ARTISTS AND I WAS ONE
OF THE RECIPIENTS.
>> MY NAME IS RISA MURRAY.
I AM A STUDENT AND AM GOING TO
BE AN ART EDUCATOR.
THERE'S BEEN SO MANY OPEN DOORS
SINCE I'VE COME TO REACH.
I HOPE TO GO OVERSEAS.
I WOULD LIKE TO TEACH FOR A
PERIOD OF TIME OVERSEAS.
THAT'S WHAT I'D LIKE TO DO WITH
MY TEACHING CERTIFICATE.
>> SOME OF THE ARTISTS SELL
THEIR WORK AND THAT HAS BEEN
WONDERFUL FOR THEM.
THEY GET 75% AND REDLINE TAKES
25% BACK INTO THE PROGRAM
ITSELF.
>> I'VE BEEN IN ABOUT FIVE
EXHIBITIONS WITH THEM.
I'VE SOLD PIECES THAT ARE IN
PROFESSIONAL OFFICE AREAS.
MY GOAL THIS YEAR IS TO GET
BIGGEAND R BETTER AT THIS, BUT I
AIN'T IN IT FOR THE MONEY.
(LAUGHS)
>> MY WORKS OF THE PAST TWO AND
A HALF YEARS HAVE BEEN
REFLECTIVE OF THE EXPERIENCE OF
THE STREET.THE NAME OF THIS PIED
"WHORE" AND IT'S REALLY INTENSE.
THE COLOR RED IS USED.
THE EYES ARE DISTORTED-- THEY'RE
KIND OF BLOTTED OUT AND THE LIPS
ARE ACCENTUATED.
THERE'S A PIECE I DID CALLED
"THE STARVING TISTARS SERIES"
AND I BASICALLY PAINTED WITH A
PLASTIC FORK.
IT WAS REFLECTIVE OF THAT STREET
EXPERIENCE AND SEEING PEOPLE
DIGGING THROUGH TRASH CANS FOR
THEIR MEALS, STANDING IN
SANDWICH LINES.
>> SUCCESS IN THE PROGRAM IS
SOMETIMES HARD TO DOCUMENT.
I'VE NOTICED THROUGHOUT REACH, A
LOT OF THE PEOPLE THAT CAME IN
THAT WERE EXPERIENCING
HOMELESSNESS MAY HAVE
TRANSITIONED INTO STABLE LIVING
ENVIRONMENTS.
WE CAN'T DIRECTLY SAY THAT'S
BECAUSE OF US.
BUT I DO THINK THE RELATIONSHIPS
THEY BUILD WITH STAFF MEMBERS
AND PEERS AND ARTISTS IN THE
COMMUNITY IS THE MOST BENEFICIAL
PART.
AND THAT'S WHERE I SEE MOST OF
THE TRANSFORMATION AS AN
INDIVIDUAL.
>> I HAVE COMMITTED A CERTAIN
BODY OF WORK TO SOMETHING I CALL
THE "CONCRETE CHRONICLES," WHICH
DOES SPEAK DIRECTLY TO STREET
LIFE.
I HAVE TAKEN SOME OF MY
PAINTINGS THAT ARE OF VERY
NATURAL RIVERSCAPES AND PUT THEM
ON ABANDONED BUILDING DOORWAYS
WHERE PEOPLE SLEEP.
AND I WANT THEM TO LOOK AT THAT
AND THINK OF SOMETHING TENDER IN
THEIR PAST OR SOMETHING THAT
MIGHT DRAW THEM TO A BETTER
FUTURE.
>> I THINK MY MESSAGE IS HOPE. I
WANT PEOPLE TO FEEL HOPEFUL
ABOUT LIFE.
I WANT PEOPLE TO FEEL JOY AND
THAT LIFE IS WORTH LIVING.
AND THAT'S ANOTHER THING ABOUT
REACH STUDIO ARTISTS: THEY
INVOKE A CELEBRATION OF LIFE
ITSELF.
>> IF YOU ENTER THESE DOORS AND
YOU SEE THE REACH ARTISTS
WORKING AND YOU KNOW WHAT THEIR
SITUATION WAS AND THAT THEY'RE
LIVING THEIR DREAMS OUT, YOU
KNOW NOT TO GIVE UP ON THAT NO
MATTER WHAT THE CIRCUMSTANCES.
I WOULD LIKE PEOPLE TO TAKE AWAY
A CERTAIN AMOUNT OF HOPE AND
STRENGTH FROM WHAT WE DO.
>> Woodruff: COMING UP LATER
THIS EVENING ON PBS, "THE
OVERNIGHTERS," A "P.O.V."
DOCUMENTARY ABOUT THE STRUGGLES
A NORTH DAKOTA TOWN FACES AS A
RUSH OF WORKERS FLOCK TO THE
AREA HOPING TO LAND A JOB IN THE
OIL FIELDS.
BUT FOR SOME, JOB PROSPECTS AND
HOUSING OPTIONS ARE SPARSE AND
ONE PASTOR TRIES TO HELP THOSE
IN NEED, CONVERTING HIS CHURCH
INTO A MAKESHIFT DORM, DESPITE
THE CONGREGATION'S OBJECTIONS
AND NEIGHBORS' FEARS.
IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME.
I HATE TO TAKE THE ROLE OF THE
ANTAGONIST.
SOMEBODY NEEDS TO TURN SOME
ROCKS OVER AND SAY, SO WHAT IS
COMMUNITY IN THIS PLACE?
WHAT ARE WE GOING TO DO HERE?
>> WE ASKED FOR PUBLIC INPUT.
I WOULD SPEAK AGAINST THE
ADOPTION OF THIS ORDINANCE.
I BELIEVE THAT WE NEED TO TAKE A
STEP THAT SAYS PEOPLE ARRIVING
ON OUR DOORSTEP ARE GIFTS TO US
AND, ALTHOUGH THERE'S A BURDEN
IN RECEIVING THEM AS A GI, TOFT
WELCOME THEM.
I ALSO BELIEVE THAT BY THE
ORDINANCE, YOU RISK SERVE FEAR,
THE FEAR OF THE PEOPLE COMING AT
US AND THE LAST THING WE NEED TO
DO IS TO SERVE OUR FEAR.
>> OUR TOP STORY, THE F.B.I.
SAYS IT BELIEVES IT HAS
UNCOVERED THE BODY OF MISSING
TEACHER SHERRY.
>> THE MULTI-STATE LAW
ENFORCEMENT DISCOVERED A WOMAN'S
BODY EAST OF WILLISTON
NORTH DAKOTA.
THE 44-YEAR-OLD TEACHER WENT TO
WORK BUT NEVER RETURNED.
>> INVESTIGATORS AT A SAI THEY
KNOW MORE ABOUT THE TWO MEN WHO
KIDNAPPED HER.
THEY MAY HAVE DRIVEN THROUGH THE
POPULAR HIGH SCHOOL TEACHER'S
HOMETOWN HOPING TO FIND JOBS IN
THE BOOMING OIL INDUSTRY.
THE DISAPPEARANCE IS FUELING
TENSIONS BETWEEN LOCALS AND THE
FROOD OF OUT-OF-TOWNERS.
THE TOWN IS LIVING IN FEAR.
>> THIS MADE US SUSPICIOUS IN
WAYS THAT I DON'T THINK WE WOULD
HAVE BEEN.
IT REALLY DOES INTENSIFY THE
FEAR.
THERE IS A FEAR OF A NEWCOMER.
SPECIFICALLY THE OVERNIGHTERS
ARE NOT W WELCOMED AS PART OF TE
COMMUNITY.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S THE "P.O.V."
DOCUMENTARY "THE OVERNIGHTERS,"
LATER TONIGHT ON MOST PBS
STATIONS.
ON THE NEWSHOUR ONLINE, CHICAGO
MAYOR RAHM EMANUEL FAMOUSLY
WORKS OUT SEVEN DAYS A WEEK.
AND WINSTON CHURCHILL FAMOUSLY
NAPPED EVERY AFTERNOON.
WHAT'S THEIR SECRET FOR JUGGLING
INTENSE JOBS WITH PERSONAL TIME?
WE TALKED TO TIME-MANAGEMENT
EXPERTS FOR TIPS ON BEING MORE
EFFICIENT AT WORK.
IT'S PART ONE IN OUR SERIES ON
THE ELUSIVE WORK/LIFE BALANCE,
AND YOU CAN FIND THAT ON OUR
HOME PAGE, THAT'S AT
pbs.org/newshour.
TUNE IN LATER THIS EVENING ON
CHARLIE ROSE: MORE ON GREECE AT
A TURNING POINT-- WHAT DOES IT
MEAN FOR EUROPE AND THE WORLD?
AND THAT'S THE NEWSHOUR FOR
TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL SIT DOWN WITH
JAMES TAYLOR ON HIS LATEST HIT
ALBUM, HIS FIRST WITH ALL NEW
SONGS IN MORE THAN A DECADE.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF, JOIN US
ONLINE, AND AGAIN HERE TOMORROW
EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.